Anjaneyasana – Low Lunge Pose
Anjaneyasana or the Low Lunge Pose energises the body and strengthens the muscles of the legs, waist, shoulders and chest. Anajaneya is the name of Hanuman whose valour and exploits are well known in the epic Ramayana.  Anjaneyasana stretches the hip muscles, the hamstrings, the back muscles and the quadriceps, along with improving the sense of balance. This pose is also called the Half Moon Pose in some schools of yoga.



How to do Anjaneyasana (Low Lunge Pose)?
Anjaneyasana can be started from various poses but the easiest one is the Adho Mukha Svanasana or the downward facing dog pose. In this pose, you are on the floor supported by your feet and the palms. The hips are raised up straight forming an angle with the hands and legs.
Start in Downward Facing Dog Pose. Exhale and take your right foot forwards. Bend lower to make the right knees align with the right foot.
The left lower leg including the left knee can be on the floor giving support. At this stage you will feel a good stretch in the left thighs and groins.
Inhale slowly and raise your torso up. At the same time, raise both your hands up above the head. The palms can touch each other in the raised position.
Tilt your head slightly backwards and look up.
Remain in this position for as long as you are comfortable. One can hold the breath in the final position or you can breathe slowly and normally.
To release the pose, exhale and bring down the hands to the floor and come back to Adho Mukha Svanasana or the downward facing dog pose.
Repeat the same procedure with the left leg forwards.
This is one round of Anjaneyasana. You may perform as many rounds as you wish.




Benefits of Anjaneyasana (Low Lunge Pose)
Anjaneyasana gives a good stretch to the hip and the muscles around the hips including the groins.
It strengthens the gluteus muscles.
It develops a good sense of balance.
It expands the chest and shoulders.
It tones the organs in the abdomen and improves digestion.
Anjaneyasana improves concentration and awareness.
It stretches the hamstrings and the quadriceps.